We're going to beat that rascal this year. We know
that a number of the students who were in schools at
the time you were there had various and sundry
jobs. Were you ever employed while you were a
student? Oh, for three months I calibrated
electric meters there in the electrical
engineering department. That was all. But quite a
few of the boys did have that kind of thing. Can you
recall some of the kinds of things that they did?
old janitor work and that kind of thing and over in
the creamery and probably in the dairy barn and and
oh I don't know it seemed like it might have been a
minority of those boys and they were probably busy
at the job and off somewhere and you just didn't
notice it too much. I was wondering did any of them
ever work for any of the professors? You mean in the
professor's home? Yeah, or do things around. Of
course, I guess the college maintained the houses
since they owned them. Oh, yes. Well, not in the
professor's homes. They might have, but I don't
know anything about it.
At that point, I guess there wasn't a whole lot of
babysitting to do. At a later period, I think some
of them did babysitting for the faculty. Well, in
that day and time, I don't think there's much
babysitting going on because I didn't know about
it. Did the students who played on the college
football and baseball and basketball teams and so
forth have privileges that the other students
didn't have? Oh, yes. They had what they called,
one thing was the mess hall. They called it the
training table. And of course, they got special
stakes and those kind of things, and that kind of
thing. I don't believe they had to attend Reveille
in the morning. You know, they had Reveille every
morning, get out and exercise. I don't believe
they had to go through that. And they were, a lot of
times they were excused from the evening
formation, you know, because they didn't get back
in time in that kind of time. They were excused from
quite a few things like that. They almost had to be
in order to participate. What about, were they,
were the officers as strict on them as far as their
uniform inspection and so forth is concerned? Oh,
yes, I think so. I was in the Signal Corps the last
year I was there, and Ruby Drake was one of the
greatest tackles we ever had down there. Well, he
dressed just like the rest of us, and they
inspected him just like they did the rest of us. I
know about him because he was, you know, some of
them, they might have been a little more lax on, but
not Ruby Drake. Okay, during the, I guess this
would have been what, during your junior year was
when they had the most active participation in the
First World War. What changes did this bring about
as far as your experiences were concerned? Well,
it brought about quite a few changes because it
went back down in the
fall of 1918. registered for school. That was when
the World War was on then. And, you know, all the
upperclassmen had gone to these training camps,
these juniors and seniors, and that left just
about all that was there was the freshmen and we
sophomores. And Of course, they had these young
lieutenants come in there to train us, that kind of
thing, and some of them was only two, three years
older than we were, you know. And it was different
in a way. We tried to maintain all the customs and
those kind of things, but it was a noticeable
difference, I think, during that period. But it
didn't last long, thank goodness. I believe it
only lasted from like September of 1918 to what,
the beginning of the next term. Yes, that's right,
the next term. You know, we were all enlisted in the
Army there, sworn in, probably about the first of
October 1918, and then they discharged shortly
after the Armistice, probably early December. I
don't remember the exact date. Were you enlisted
in what was called the SATC? SATC, Student Army
Training Corps, yes, sir. And you still attended
GLSIS, I take it? Oh yes, we did, and that's right,
and we specialized on military, you know, and
these officers would talk to us and train us, and
they'd begin to sort us out to go to future training
camps in case the war continued. I was slated to go
to an artillery camp, but you know, the war ended
before I reached that point. And I think the,
particularly the seniors who came back were,
enrolled in in January, and they did kind of a hurry
up two semesters. Hurry up a semester. I think they
ran over in June sometime. But it hurried up to get
them through there and to graduate them. And so
actually, you didn't really have any
participation in the war effort other than being
in the SATC for a couple months. That's right, on
the campus, a couple months. Let's
see.
I noticed here from your senior yearbook, you were
in G Company, what, the first regiment? Yes, sir.
For three years? Yes, sir. And let's see. Company
of Signal Corps after that. Okay. I have you being
as a fish in Company G1 and a sophomore in Company
G1, and then you were in a sergeant in G Company, and
then you went to first sergeant in A Company Signal
Corps. Right, right. When was that, when did you
switch to the signal corps? Was that... That was
January 1919 when the seniors came back. I was a
first sergeant. That period from January to June.
So it was kind of, so did all the students then go
through June instead of not just the seniors? The
whole college. The whole college went until June.
And then a lot of us went to camp, military camp. I
went back with a group back to Louisville,
Kentucky to an infantry camp after the war, right
after June. Right after June until then you came
back in September again for the senior year, and
then you were captain in the Signal Corps then.
Company A. So that's when you got your free pass to
the theater. Oh, yes. You were also, I take it, in
the RVs. Yeah, I was in the RV, yes, sir. Fine
organization. What? Fine organization. What was
the procedure for becoming a member of the RVs?
Well, it was a secret ballot. Of course, I didn't
know my name written proposed. I don't know who
proposed it. These RVs, they met and then they
announced who they had elected to join the
organization. And that was in the afternoon, they
announced it. And of course, the RVs then went over
cases, which was a confectionery in that Y, in
order to box cigars or peas or drinks and charge it
to the new RVs. And of course, we had to divide up and
pay the bill. So I knew nothing about it until I was
notified I'd been elected. A happy occasion. What
sort of things did the RVs do? Well, of course, they
had a dance every year. They called it the RV dance.
And then we had special drills, military drills,
precision drills. And then at the end of the year,
we'd compete on these drills, who would be the best
drill man, and that kind of thing. That was within
the RVs? Yes, RVs. So you had kind of a double amount
of drilling to do then, as you remember. Were you in
the RVs as both a junior and a senior? No. No, my
senior year, my senior year. But I believe both
juniors and seniors were eligible. Yes, they
were, but mine, junior year, I mean senior year.
Was that generally the case, most of them were
seniors? Well, I'd say... I'd say the majority of
them were yes. Yes, I think so. Although, you know,
they had a nucleus to come on next year to carry the
organization on. I think there's more than 50% of
them seniors, yes, as I recall. So then you had a
special uniform which you wore just
occasionally. Yes, that's right. He has a white
uniform and gold braid and all that kind of stuff.
You wore this to the RV hop and other occasions.
Yeah, the RV hop, yeah, that's right, and the
drills and... special occasions that we dressed
in the Army uniform.
And I noticed you were also a member of the senior
court. Yes, I was. In those days, instead of the
military office punishing boys, they decided for
a while after this senior court made up of seniors
to find out what was going on and the circumstances
and mete out punishment. to these guilty persons.
And we'd bring the boys in and question them and
find out both sides, just like a regular court. And
then they'd issue a punishment. And of course, the
cadet colonel and some of those were on top of it.
And they had a couple of commanders on the thing.
They tried to get it all over so they'd have
representation. But how many were on the senior
court? Oh, I'd say Might have been 20, not over 20,
as I recall. This would have been then, say, after
the World War I, when they did the senior court?
Yes, oh yes. That was my senior year. To my
knowledge, they didn't have it before then. They
might have. But what sort of infractions would the
senior court work upon? The violations of
military discipline? Well, yes, and then staying
over in Brown, maybe without pass, or going
without pass, or... Now I know one case, one of the
upperclassmen made a very derogatory remark,
there's company command there. Well, they,
things like that, you know, bring that up and
thrash that out. What did you do then? Did you, you
would decide upon punishment, would this be
issuing a certain amount of demerits? Demerits,
that kind of thing, or yes, maybe sometimes they'd
confine them to campus too, you know, and confine
them to campus, demerits. Were these demerits
then announced at the evening meal as had been the
custom before? A couple of people I've talked to
said every night at supper they read the RAM list
for the day. I don't recall that they read the
special. No, I don't recall that. And I don't
recall the RAM list at mealtime. I don't recall
that. I might do that another period, you know. Not
in my time. I don't remember. Mm-hmm. I don't think
they did. Okay. I noticed that you have a picture of
Bevo there with the 13-0 branded on him. Yes, sir.
And this incident occurred while you were there, I
take it. No. Well, this branding did, yes. Yeah,
yeah. Yeah, branding did. It was a 1915 game.
That's why I was there. But seniors went over to him
in 1916, I believe it was. They went over to Austin,
cut old Bevo, and branded him there, 13-0. Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I believe that was early in 1917 they did
that. My assistant has talked with Hans... roadie
from hondo oh yeah he was one of them i believe yeah
he wielded the branding iron i believe oh well and
here's um here's a picture there's um goodman hall
and this is some this is gone yeah that's gone now
that's the drill field nowadays you know back
there here's the over see the old building
entrance this view this way this was the main
entrance back out of the old building is now was the
sewer Now, did that fence go all the way around the
campus? No, no, just the gate there, just the gate.
Just the gate right there at the entranceway from
near the railroad track. The railroad track's
both right over here, two of them, you know. There
was not a road between the railroad track and
the... Today, there's a paved highway that runs
from Bryan through Welburn, and I believe it runs
all the way to Navasota. I believe there's a road
between the railroad tracks and this gate, I
believe, at that time, yes, coming from Bryan.
Yes, because that's the only way to get to Bryan in
those days. You didn't have that other road, no.
Yeah, it wasn't paved. No, it was gravel probably.
Okay. Here, did you ever see this picture? That's
the Rye Sal. Did you ever see that? I have seen a
different picture of it. I haven't seen this one.
Well, that, you know, we got that in 1916. Here's a
uniform we wore in 1916, see? This is Spieser Hall.
And we had this thing locked up on the fourth floor,
I believe, the Old Main, which was the Army at that
time, and the sergeants guarded. But, you know, I
guess you heard this story. The Rice boys came up
there and captured this thing. And I've always
thought that the... The feds at the university got
together. They didn't want to keep this thing, so
they said, you send your boys up and we'll make sure
you get it. Well, our boys chased them, they said,
all the way back to Houston trying to catch them,
but they never caught them. Rodie, I think, told us
a little bit about that. He said something about
that Rice boys had hired a detective. to come over
and investigate. And he supposedly posed as a
sports writer and found out where it was and let the
Rice boys know where it was. Well, I don't know the
details. I always thought maybe Dr. Brazell got
with the president of Rice and said, well, now
we've had our fun. Come and get it. I don't know what
he said. Well, it's always a possibility. That's
right. Here's the, that's what you look like in
those days. Let me ask you this question. Over here
from the left, there's a track. Is this the
Tunerville Trolley track through here?
Let me see. Where's the mess hall? Let me see. The
mess hall was on. Oh, yeah, right here. Yeah, right
here. You boarded it right over here, just west of
it. That was the termination of it. And then it went
right out this way over to Bryan. And this was a spur
from one or the other, either the INGN or the HNTC, I
guess, to bring... I suppose so, yes, to bring the
material and things into the station, college.
Mm-hmm. Okay. Let's go back to this picture of Bevo
for a minute, and let me ask you about this. We have
on one copy, we have two or three copies of this
picture in the archives, and on the back of one,
there's a couple of clippings. One of the
clippings indicates that sometime after this
branding, Bevo was slaughtered. They had a
banquet over at Austin in January of 1920, to which
some people from A&M and people from the
University of Texas were invited. They had a
barbecue banquet over at the gymnasium in Austin.
And since that supposedly occurred when you were
there, I wondered if you heard anything about it. a
banquet of that nature. No, if I knew about it, it
would slip my mind. I don't recall that. Well, we
have this clipping that's not dated, but we also
have an invitation that's the size of a regular
sheet of paper, 8 1â„2 by 11, has a picture of Bevo
before the branding, plus an invitation at the
bottom which indicates that he was slaughtered,
and he was January 22, 1920. I see. I don't recall
that. I'll tell you one incident happened over at
Austin, I remember, when I was about a sophomore. A
whole bunch of them went over there. We were
playing basketball at the University of Texas in
their gym. And I believe it was between the half, we
were on one side and the T-Sips on the other side.
And they turned a possum loose on that court with
our colors on it. Well, you know what happened. To
my knowledge, the game was never finished. I
wasn't there when it finished anyway. How we got
back to College Station, I don't remember. But I
imagine you had a general melee. A general
meeting, anyway. Oh, boy, gosh.
Okay, then you graduated then in the spring or May
or June of 1920. May the 20th, 1920. And did you then
have a job at the time you graduated, or did you
enter the job market at that point? No, City
Service sent a representative down to College
Station in the spring of 1920 to interview people,
and three of us in the class signed up. But when we
got out of school in the May, we were committed to
for our ROTC commitment to attend a signal corps
camp back in Little Silver, New Jersey. So we went
back there and I took up my employment in first
September by agreement with city service. And
where did you go for your first job? Bartleville,
Oklahoma. That was the headquarters of the city
service oil company at that time. Okay, and I think
you said you were with city service? 42 years in
711. 42 years in 711. So you never worked for
anybody else? Nobody. Could you tell me a little
bit about what you did for city service? Well, I
worked in the other department, except the
treasurer wouldn't trust me there. But I worked in
the... We started out, we had a junior engineer's
course, kind of a training course where they'd
send you around to all the departments, kind of get
acquainted and learn how. Then I was in the
engineering department. surveying and drafting
and things like that and then I was in the pipeline
department kind of overseeing or supervising
contractors who were laying pipelines for us and
then at that time we had an appraisal department
that appraised all of our properties and I was
serving that department as an engineer and then I
when I then in 19 then In the early 40s, the Federal
Power Commission started cracking down all the
utilities to get them to establish the original
cost and that kind of thing. And I served in the
rates department of our company several years,
establishing original cost and that kind of thing
with companies. And I put in the last 19 years my
tenure as a subsidiary of the City Service Gas
Company in Oklahoma City in the rates and sales
department.
OK. um
then you you retired from city service uh what year
60 and retired april 1st 1963. 63. did you move
directly to amarillo at that point well when i
retired we put our house for sale up in Oklahoma
City and since I've been camping out for two years,
native Texan, I want to get back to Texas. My wife,
all her family lived here. Her son lived in Denver.
Well, we put her house up for sale and in about five
months we sold it and moved here and bought this
house. So it was because of family then that you,
family connections, that you moved down the road?
Well, yes. I visited here many, many times, wife,
brothers, and we loved the climate here. It was a
wonderful climate. Best in the country. Best in
the world. Where did you meet your wife? I met her in
Bartlesville, Oklahoma. She was working for city
service when I joined the organization, and I met
her there. Okay, Bartlesville was the
headquarters, national headquarters? Well, no,
New York City was the national headquarters, but
Bartlesville was the next headquarters for the
oil company activities. Okay.
What sort of things have you been involved in since
you have come to Amarillo? Well, of course, I
belong with the... local camera club in Oklahoma
City and I've continued my activities in the
camera club here. I put our slides up to judge and
score. One year I was president of the American
Association of Retired Persons organization
here in town and I attend and take part in Sunday
school and church activities every week and on
politics I distribute pamphlets and call on the
neighbors and that kind of thing to get them out to
vote, and do a little gardening and keep up my yard.
But you haven't actually entered politics
yourself. No, no, I don't intend to. No, no.
They'll deliver me. No, no. Well, I think you had
one more picture there. Oh, here's the Aggie team
in 1919, Southwest Champions. See, that's all the
players we had. Well, that wouldn't even make the
watering squad now. Yeah. You know, in 19... As I
recall, DX, we played Texas University at College
Station. We had one coach, DX, an assistant, and a
colored ball for the rubdown. That's all we had.
And he coached track or something else. I can't
recall whether this is a fact, but DX put in 11
players. And if I recall correctly, he didn't have
a timeout or a substitution. You might check that
someplace. Mm-hmm. Well, I think they were much
stricter on what you could have in the, for, you
know, I think at that point you couldn't call a
timeout just because you wanted to. No, and if you
played in one quarter and come out, you couldn't go
back in that quarter. And we beat them seven to
nothing, and we marched right on through. But,
boy, we had some real old boys in those days. Here's
old, here's old Kempmutter.
Boy, yeah. What's that little figure written?
Well, that looks like somebody standing way back
there in the background, looks like. Let's see.
Here's Harrison right here. You know, he lives
over in Brown. Chick Harrison. You know Chick
Harrison? R.H. Harrison? He's a class agent with
the class of 20. He lives in Brown, isn't he? I don't
know him personally. I probably have heard of him.
Chick Harrison. R.H. Harrison.
Yeah. Okay. Okay. I guess that was the high point in
A&M athletics when they had... Well, in 1917, they
weren't scored on either. Right here. That tells
the story. This was... Well, that's 1919. Well, in
1917, they weren't scored on either. So you had
1917, and the 1919 football teams were not scored
on at all? No, they weren't. We played LSU. This is
my wife. This is Mr. Sheward. How you do? Well, he's
been asking me all kinds of questions. Did you?
Well, yeah, you want to fix one?